URL: https://insights.blackcoffer.com/ai-tool-alexa-google-assistant-finance-banking-tool-future/
Title: How machine learning used in finance and banking? - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
What We Think
How machine learning used in finance and banking?
Through AI tools like natural language processing, Alexa and google assistant has led the retail industry in its rise towards conversational commerce. As if a customer was interacting with a clerk in a retail store, conversational commerce makes it possible for users to engage with software to research, purchase, or get customer assistance with products and services across a wide range of industries. With Alexa, for example, users can ask any Alexa-enabled device to add an item to an Amazon shopping cart, set a purchasing reminder when a product is running low, or carry out a complete purchase without having to access a shopping cart. The result is a seamless conversational experience that enables consumers to carry out transactions as quickly as it takes to speak a sentence.
Through AI tools like natural language processing, Alexa has led the retail industry in its rise towards conversational commerce. As if a customer was interacting with a clerk in a retail store, conversational commerce makes it possible for users to engage with software to research, purchase, or get customer assistance with products and services across a wide range of industries.
With the advent of personalized products and on-call delivery, customers have come to expect a new standard experience: fast, easy, accurate, and personalized. Accomplishing this without sacrificing your workday can be a challenge, since the data processing required to meet these needs is immense. Luckily, virtual agents (VAs), powered by conversational AI, can utilize this information faster and more accurately than humans, finding insights and automating communication to deliver an enriched customer experience. If you invest based on these improvements, you’ll find that implementing these tools delivers a powerful competitive advantage. AI has helped in automobile, education, retail and commerce, finance and banking and healthcare.
Voice AI has powered the wheels of conversational e-commerce, which has impacted the way the customer communicates with the brand in multiple industries. Brands generally build a campaign to emotionally connect with customers, for long-term growth. With Voice, brand campaigns need to be short and ones that can lead to immediate buying. Conversational e-commerce is still in its nascent stage and it is expected to grow manifold in the coming years. The future of shopping is going to Voice AI and marketers have to get on the bandwagon fast to increase their brand value and visibility. Targeting will have to be highly personalized for success.
Despite its narrow focus, conversation AI is an extremely lucrative technology for enterprises, helping businesses more profitable. While an AI chatbot is the most popular form of conversational AI, there are still many other use cases across the enterprise.
While an exclusively chat- or voice-based shopping experience for all scenarios may never completely replace the in-person experience, conversational commerce will continue to grow as an added method of convenient and efficient communication. As users continue to become more accustomed to engaging with chatbots and voice-driven interfaces, expect more innovations in the space as brands continue to develop their unique conversation-based solutions.
Blackcoffer Insights 28: Samyak Jain
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Why scams like Nirav Modi Happen with Indian banks?
April 12, 2020
Database Normalization & Segmentation with Google Data Studio Dashboard Insights
February 27, 2022
AI Bot Audio to audio
April 3, 2024
Deploy node.js apps to google app engine, google cloud platform
May 16, 2021
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
What is the chance Homo sapiens will survive for the next...
IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON THE GLOBAL ECONOMY
IoT & AI/ML Solution for Retail Walmart, Big Bazaar, Max, Reliance...
A web-based dashboard for the filtered data retrieval of land records

Positive Score: 30
Negative Score: 6
Polarity Score: 0.18642727272727275
Subjectivity Score: 0.4960575757575757
Avg Sentence Length: 26.44
Percentage Complex Words: 22.995461422087747
Fog Index: 19.7741845688351
Avg Words Per Sentence: 26.44
Complex Word Count: 152
Word Count: 661
Syllables Per Word: 1.7866868381240544
Personal Pronouns: 1
Avg Word Length: 5.354009077155824
